** Mesochronic Analysis Toolbox ** 

written by Marko Budisic, Dept. of
Mechanical Engineering 

mbudisic@engr.ucsb.edu 

supported by ONR MURI N00014-11-1-0087


** Intro **

This is a Matlab toolbox intented to demonstrate the principles behind
2d and 3d mesochronic analyses for incompressible dynamical systems.

Demo: abcslice.m

For a simple demonstration, in Matlab run abcslice([], [0.5, 1.0,
1.5], 50, 1e-3)

This code will perform the mesochronic analysis of a slice in the ABC
flow, with 50x50 initial condition grid, over averaging intervals
[0.5, 1.0, 1.5], with tolerance of 1e-3 on criteria that have to be
matched to zero.

The results will be saved to a .mat file and also plotted.

*** File functionality ***

* Main files *

  abcslice.m -- Demo; Can be used as a model for how analysis should
  			    be performed and visualized

  meh_simulation.m -- Harness: this is the main file that performs
  simulation and analysis of an arbitrary system

  meh2d.m -- Takes a mesochronic Jacobian and computes quantifiers and
  classification for 2d flows

  meh3d.m -- Takes a mesochronic Jacobian and computes quantifiers and
  classification for 3d flows

* Computational aides *

  evaluateJ_ode.m -- Evaluates the mesochronic Jacobian at a given
  state point and time of a flow.

  mcjacobian.m -- Computes a mesochronic Jacobian from evaluations of
  			      instantaneous Jacobian along trajectory
  				  (run by evaluateJ_ode.m)

  ftle.m -- Computes FTLE from mesochronic Jacobian (run by
  meh2d/meh3d).

  jacobian_fd.m -- Computes instantaneous Jacobiaian using central
  difference method on a vector field.

  matpolys.m -- Computes characteristic and minimal polynomials of a
  matrix.

  mindist.m -- Computes the smallest difference of elements of a
  vector.


* Visualization aides *

  mehcolor.m -- Creates a colormap for visualization of 2d mesochronic
  classes using values of determinant.

  diverging_map.m -- Creates a diverging colormap between 2
  					 colors. Written by Andy Stein based on Kenneth
  					 Moreland (Sandia) paper:
  					 http://www.sandia.gov/~kmorel/documents/ColorMaps/
  					 doi:10.1007/978-3-642-10520-3_9

* Additional files *

  abcflow_invsets_zslice.mat -- dataset containing invariant sets of
  ABC flow. Used here for purposes of abcslice.m demo.

  mcjacobian.prj -- Matlab Coder Project file, used to compile
  				    mcjacobian.m into a fast compiled code.


Copyright (c) 2013, Regents of the University of California All rights
reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.  Redistributions
in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of
conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or
other materials provided with the distribution.  Neither the name of
the University of California, Santa Barbara nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.  THIS
SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

